And in production to the Book of Ruth, the Prophet Samuel is believed to be the writer
of this book.
The Book of Ruth was completed about 1090 BCE.
The events related cover a period early in the time of the Judges.
The book takes its name from one of its principal characters, Ruth the Moabitis.
The other main characters are Naomi and Boaz.
In Chapter 1, a famine moods a man named Elimilex to take his family from Bethlehem
to the land of Moab.
In Moab, Elimilex dies.
His sons Maulin and Killian marry the Moabite women Ruth and Orpa.
Some ten years later, both sons also die.
Naomi, in deep despair, decides to return to Bethlehem.
She urges her daughters-in-law to go back to their families.
Orpa returns to her people.
Ruth, however, sticks loyally to Naomi.
When the two widows arrive at Bethlehem, the barley harvest has just begun.
In Chapter 2, Ruth, by chance, cleans in a field belonging to Boaz, who is related
to Naomi's late husband.
Recognizing Ruth's fine qualities, Boaz tells her to continue cleaning in his fields.
When Ruth later tells Naomi that she had cleaned in the fields of a man named Boaz, Naomi
says, the man is related to us.
He is one of our repurchasers.
In Chapter 3, Naomi instructs Ruth to ask Boaz to act as repurchaser.
He and Ruth could then raise up offspring for Naomi in order to carry on the family line
of Elimilex.
Boaz is willing to perform this loving deed, but he tells Ruth that Naomi has a closer
male relative who could repurchase her.
In Chapter 4, Boaz goes to the Bethlehem City Gate, where he meets with the other male
relative, who is referred to as so-and-so.
When the relative, in the presence of ten city elders, learns of his obligations, he declines
to help.
Boaz then publicly accepts the responsibilities of repurchaser.
Boaz now marries Ruth, and they have a son, whom the neighbor women name Obed.
Did you know Boaz set a fine example of obedience to Jehovah.
He did all in his power to help Naomi and Ruth by applying God's law on repurchase, taking
no shortcuts.
The book concludes, Obed became father to Jesse, and Jesse became father to David.
Who became a king of Israel and an ancestor of the Messiah.
As you read the book of Ruth, see how Jehovah turns tragedy into triumph.
Observe how he rewards those who love and obey him.
And note how the book contributes to the history of David's family line, which produced the
king of God's kingdom.